doc: add Incremental Entity Provider to main docs for better visibility (#26228)
backstage/backstage: docs/features/software-catalog/external-integrations.md

### Installation

1. Install `@backstage/plugin-catalog-backend-module-incremental-ingestion` with `yarn --cwd packages/backend add @backstage/plugin-catalog-backend-module-incremental-ingestion` from the Backstage root directory.

2. Add the following code to the `packages/backend/src/index.ts` file:

```ts title="packages/backend/src/index.ts"
const backend = createBackend();

/* highlight-add-start */
backend.add(
  import(
    '@backstage/plugin-catalog-backend-module-incremental-ingestion/alpha'
  ),
);
/* highlight-add-end */

backend.start();
```

### Writing an Incremental Entity Provider

To create an Incremental Entity Provider, you need to know how to retrieve a single page of data from an API with pagination. The `IncrementalEntityProvider` facilitates this by requiring:

- **getProviderName:** A unique name to avoid conflicts with other providers.
- **next:** Fetches a specific page of entities, moving the cursor forward.

> - **around:** Handles setup and teardown, wrapping the process that iterates through multiple pages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **around:** Handles setup and tear-down, wrapping the process that iterates through multiple pages.
```

// In this case, the cursor will include `page`
interface Cursor {
  page: number;
}

// This interface describes the type of data that will be passed to your burst function.
interface Context {
  apiClient: MyApiClient;
}

export class MyIncrementalEntityProvider
  implements IncrementalEntityProvider<Cursor, Context>
{
  getProviderName() {
    return `MyIncrementalEntityProvider`;
  }
}
```

`around` method is used for setup and tear-down. For example, if you need to create a client that will connect to the API, you would do that here.

```ts
export class MyIncrementalEntityProvider
  implements IncrementalEntityProvider<Cursor, Context>
{
  getProviderName() {
    return `MyIncrementalEntityProvider`;
  }

  async around(burst: (context: Context) => Promise<void>): Promise<void> {
    const apiClient = new MyApiClient();

    await burst({ apiClient });

    // If you need to do any teardown, you can do it here.
  }
}
```

If you need to pass a token to your API, then you can create a constructor that will receive a token and use the token to setup the client.

```ts
export class MyIncrementalEntityProvider
  implements IncrementalEntityProvider<Cursor, Context>
{

>   token: string;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  private readonly token: string;
```

  constructor(token: string) {
    this.token = token;
  }

  getProviderName() {
    return `MyIncrementalEntityProvider`;
  }

  async around(burst: (context: Context) => Promise<void>): Promise<void> {
    const apiClient = new MyApiClient(this.token);

    await burst({ apiClient });
  }
}
```

The last step is to implement the actual `next` method that will accept the cursor, call the API, process the result and return the result.

```ts
export class MyIncrementalEntityProvider implements IncrementalEntityProvider<Cursor, Context> {

> 
>   token: string;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  private readonly token: string;
```

  constructor(token: string) {
    this.token = token;
  }

  getProviderName() {
    return `MyIncrementalEntityProvider`;
  }

  async around(burst: (context: Context) => Promise<void>): Promise<void> {

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    const apiClient = new MyApiClient(this.token)

    await burst({ apiClient })
  }

  async next(context: Context, cursor?: Cursor = { page: 1 }): Promise<EntityIteratorResult<Cursor>> {
    const { apiClient } = context;

    // call your API with the current cursor
    const data = await apiClient.getServices(cursor);

    // calculate the next page
    const nextPage = page + 1;

    // figure out if there are any more pages to fetch
    const done = nextPage > data.totalPages;

    // convert returned items into entities
    const entities = data.items.map(item => ({
      entity: {
        apiVersion: 'backstage.io/v1beta1',
        kind: 'Component',
        metadata: {
          name: item.name,
          annotations: {
            // You need to define these, otherwise they'll fail validation
            [ANNOTATION_LOCATION]: this.getProviderName(),
            [ANNOTATION_ORIGIN_LOCATION]: this.getProviderName(),
          }

>         }

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        },
```

        spec: {

>           type: 'service'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
          type: 'service',
          lifecycle: 'production', // Ideally your source has this information
          owner: 'unknown', // Ideally your source has this information
```

these are required fields, might as well make the example compile and ingest fully successfully

backend.start();
```

## Incremental Entity Provider

The Incremental Ingestion catalog backend module provides an Incremental Entity Provider that can be used to ingest data from sources using delta mutations, while retaining the orphan prevention mechanism provided by full mutations.

> ### Why did we create it?

Reviewer: Look, this is nice text as such, but not sure it belongs here. A long motivations section, and technical implementation details, could go into the README.md of the module itself. For this article, it's probably enough to say something along the lines (paraphrasing) of "If your data source is large and perhaps does not fit into memory but does support pagination, there's a convenient incremental entity provider that lets you efficiently ingest that paginated source." And then how to install it. That's what the reader of this particular article most benefits from.

1. The cursor must be serializable to JSON (not an issue for most RESTful or GraphQL based APIs).
2. The client must be stateless - a client is created from scratch for each iteration to allow distributing processing over multiple replicas.
3. There must be sufficient storage in Postgres to handle the additional data. (Presumably, this is also true of sqlite, but it has only been tested with Postgres.)

### Installation

1. Install `@backstage/plugin-catalog-backend-module-incremental-ingestion` with `yarn --cwd packages/backend add @backstage/plugin-catalog-backend-module-incremental-ingestion` from the Backstage root directory.

2. Add the following code to the `packages/backend/src/index.ts` file:

```ts title="packages/backend/src/index.ts"
/* highlight-add-next-line */
import { catalogModuleCustomIncrementalIngestionProvider } from './extensions/catalogCustomIncrementalIngestion';

const backend = createBackend();

/* highlight-add-start */
backend.add(
  import(
    '@backstage/plugin-catalog-backend-module-incremental-ingestion/alpha'
  ),
);
/* highlight-add-end */

> // We have created this in section **Adding an Incremental Entity Provider to the catalog**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
// See the section below for how this provider is created.
```

a bit simpler.

There's always a risk of confusion when you tell people to write an essentially broken piece of code that you fix up later on. Might consider putting the module creation code _first_ in this document, and then finally have a small segment at the bottom of how it gets added to the index.ts.

/* highlight-add-next-line */
backend.add(catalogModuleCustomIncrementalIngestionProvider);

backend.start();
```

### Writing an Incremental Entity Provider

To create an Incremental Entity Provider, you need to know how to retrieve a single page of the data that you wish to ingest into the Backstage catalog. If the API has pagination and you know how to make a paginated request to that API, you'll be able to implement an Incremental Entity Provider for this API. For more information about compatibility, check out the [requirements](#requirements) section of this page.

> Here is the type definition for an Incremental Entity Provider.

Reviewer: Mmm maybe don't put the full source code of that in here. It'll just turn out to drift from reality when we iterate on code. Sometimes it's better to have a little bit of plain text saying something like "Incremental providers need to have a unique name, and some methods that move the cursor and fetch a page of data." and then when the actual implementation starts below, it'll be clear what you are doing in those terms.

            // Optional back-off configuration - how long should it wait to retry
            // in the event of an error?
            backoff: [
              { seconds: 5 },
              { seconds: 30 },
              { minutes: 10 },
              { hours: 3 },
            ],

            // Optional. Use this to prevent removal of entities above a given
            // percentage. This can be helpful if a data source is flaky and
            // sometimes returns a successful status, but fewer than expected
            // assets to add or maintain in the catalog.
            rejectRemovalsAbovePercentage: 5,

            // Optional. Similar to rejectRemovalsAbovePercentage, except it
            // applies to complete, 100% failure of a data source. If true,
            // a data source that returns a successful status but does not
            // provide any assets to turn into entities will have its empty
            // data set rejected.
            rejectEmptySourceCollections: true,
          };

          incrementalBuilder.addProvider({
            provider: myEntityProvider,
            options,
          });
        },
      });
    },
  });
```

That's it!!!

> ### Administrative Routes

Reviewer: same here, not sure anyone is meant to actually interface with these, could be in the module's readme instead perhaps?

This document could still have some link like "For a deep dive in the technicalities of the incremental readme, see `<LINK>`"
